What do you think makes us valuable to Jehovah?
Is it our natural ability?
Our many years of faithful service?
Is it our Bethel assignment?
Well, turn with me and your Bible's to 1 Peter chapter 3, and we'll let
Jehovah answer this through his word for us.
1 Peter chapter 3, and we'll reverse 4, but let it be the secret
person of the heart in the incorruptible adornment of the quiet and
mild spirit, which is of great value in the eyes of God.
Of course, we know in the full context of the opening verses here in
1 Peter chapter 3, Peter is referring to Christian women.
But if we isolate this phrase in verse 4, the secret person of the heart,
that applies to all of us, brothers and sisters, because it's referring to
who we are on the inside, our thoughts, our beliefs, our emotions.
That's why David prayed in Psalm 51 verse 10 for Jehovah to create within
him a pure heart, because that's what Jehovah sees and examines.
That is what is valuable to him.
And that's what all of us are striving to do to serve him in that way.
And the beautiful thing is that when Jehovah sees that we're trying to
serve him this way, not only does that make us valuable to him,
but he will also give us whatever we need in whatever assignment we happen to have.
Now, just to prove this, let's look at three different occasions in various stages
of David's life, all related to his assignment in warfare.
We'll start with the account in 1 Samuel chapter 17, when it was determined
that David was going to fight Goliath, you recall that he was clothed with Saul's
armor. Now, luckily, that was quite the privilege to fight with the King's armor.
But notice the middle of verse 39, after David tries it on, look at what happens.
David said to Saul, I am unable to go in these things before I am not used to them.
So David took them off.
So valuable armor, but David wasn't equipped to use it.
It didn't fit him or his circumstances at the time.
But you notice David didn't let that stop him.
Instead, he used what worked for him.
He looked for five smooth stones and with Jehovah's help, that was more than enough
for him to carry out his assignment.
Perhaps we know of brothers and sisters, maybe here at Bethel or in the field,
who at one time may have been hesitant in having a Bible study or engaging in some other aspect of the ministry,
maybe because they felt they didn't have the skill of a seasoned pioneer.
And yet, they excelled and Jehovah blessed their efforts.
You see, they didn't let that stop them.
They just worked with what they had.
Their love for Jehovah, their sincerity, and Jehovah blessed them.
The point is, due to our circumstances, we may not all have the experience, the training,
the figurative King's armor, so to speak, for a particular assignment.
But we still should not let that stop us in our efforts to serve Jehovah.
We find what works for us.
And it may be that for time, we may feel that we're just working with a couple of figurative smooth stones.
But Jehovah says that is more than enough for us to carry out our assignment.
Well, let's consider the second occasion.
Some time later now, David is trained, he's skilled, he's quite the warrior.
And in 1 Samuel 18 verse 4, he gets another privilege, this time, to use the armor of Saul's son, Jonathan.
And he's successful.
He wins many battles.
To the point where in verse 7, the women are celebrating.
Saul has struck down his thousands, and David, his tens of thousands.
Well, what makes David so successful?
When watched our noted that David's fighting was a matter of courage,
because he repeatedly inquired of Jehovah as to his moving into battle,
showing that he was being guided by Jehovah and not merely love of conquest.
What can we take away from this?
Even if we're privileged to do many things in the organization,
we should never let our intellect, our privilege, our position, our natural abilities stop us from seeking Jehovah's direction first.
That can help us to maintain humility, to keep us valuable to Jehovah.
Thought it was interesting.
The watchtower also mentioned one of the reasons that the women were able to sing and celebrate David
was because of how David inspired his men in battle.
So clearly, David must have worked along well with others.
He encouraged his men, he motivated them, he brought out the best in them.
And together, they were able to have many victories in behalf of Jehovah.
Well, isn't that a nice reminder for family heads, congregation elders,
our overseers and crew leaders here at Bethel?
When we maintain the right disposition,
Jehovah can use us to inspire, to motivate and encourage those that we work with.
And then together, we can accomplish much to Jehovah's praise.
One final occasion, this time in 2 Samuel.
At this point, David is now older, he's won many battles.
But in yet another war with the Palestinians, notice what happens to him.
Second Samuel chapter 21 will read verse 15.
It says so once again, there was a war between the Philistines and Israel.
So David and his servants went down and fought the Philistines.
But David became exhausted.
This time, David, even with his armor, was in a situation that almost got him killed.
Now, the courage was still there, but his strength wasn't.
He was exhausted.
So in verse 17, how grateful he must have been that men like Abishai had kept an eye on him
and quickly came to his aid.
If you go back a couple of chapters to chapter 18, in verses 3 and 4,
this matter of David going out to fight had come up before.
But you notice when you look at those verses, it was not as if the men were stopping David from doing anything.
They just wanted him to do work that fit his circumstances.
And in verse 4, we see the wisdom of David in agreeing to do so.
What doesn't this make us think of our dear, faithful older ones in the family?
We love all of you so dearly, we hold you in high esteem.
And we know that Jehovah treasures and values you as well, because he sees your heart.
And he knows that your strength may not be as it once was, but your faith, your love, your courage, your zeal.
It's all there, and it's the strongest ever.
So we're so appreciative of our brotherhood, this Bethel family, where we have members like Abishai,
where it's such a privilege for them and us to come to your aid and support when we can.
And Jehovah certainly appreciates your willingness to do whatever work you're able to do as it fits your circumstances.
So what a reminder it is to know that it's not our strength or natural ability that draws us closer to Jehovah.
It's that secret person of the heart, a pure heart that makes us valuable to God.
And when we serve him in that way, he will give us whatever we need, regardless of our situation or circumstances,
to always serve him in a way that he approves.